# 2014 Email
*12/31/2014*

Hey everyone,

I thought I would take a moment on the last day of 2014 to send some bullet points from our small group studies this year - kind of a little recap for the year but also to encourage us to keep it up!

## From our study on love:

* Remember your name in Christ (I am a delight to God, I am God's handiwork, I am blameless before Christ, etc)

* What is the definition of love?  Giving, sacrificing, ascribing worth to someone or something.

* How much does God love you? Think of what Jesus did for us on the cross - He couldn't have done *more* to show you how much he loves you!

* We aren't just receivers of God's love - we are to be "conduits" that let His love flow to others around us.
* The greatest commandment in the Bible: (Matthew 22:36-39) Love the Lord your God with all your heart AND love your neighbor as yourself.  The *greatest* commandment in the Bible *commands* us to love others.

* ABOVE ALL - love

    * 1 John 4:21 "And this commandment we have from Him, that the one who loves God should love his brother also."
    * 1 Corinthians 16:14 "Let all that you do be done in love."
    * Colossians 3:14a "Beyond all these things put on love"
    * 1 Peter 4:8 "Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another, because love covers a multitude of sins."
    * Galatians 5:14 "For the whole Law is fulfilled in one word, in the statement, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”"

* Remember the thermostat/thermometer analogy?  Our emotions are like a thermometer which goes up and down with our environment.  Our love should be like a thermostat - we choose to set it (choose to love) and keep it there even when our environment is going up or down.  Choose to love regardless of how you feel.

-----------
* Judgment - God is able to love people and judge people at the same time - we are not
* Unless someone has invited you to be in a deeper spiritual relationship with them, your only thought of that person should be how much God values that person (they were worth dying for!) and to love them.
* We are good at making excuses for our own mistakes, so why not cut people around you a little slack - only God knows the entire story of what that person is going through.
* Judgment is about ascribing worth to ourselves at cost to others.  Love is about ascribing worth to others at cost to ourselves.


The things listed above are good to try for, but remember, it comes out of the abundance of love that you are receiving from God.  For that reason, we need to live in the center of God's love - Abide in His love - clothe yourself in His love.  When you are living in His love, that love will pour out to those around you.


## From our study on 1 John:

* Keep in mind how timeless God's Word is - John walked and talked with Jesus, and then wrote (proclaimed) to the early church that they could have that same fellowship with Jesus - and so can we!
* John's message from Jesus: God is light, and cannot be around darkness.  If we say we follow God but don't act like it, we walk in the darkness.
* If we say that we don't sin, the truth is not in us - however, if we confess our sins, he is *faithful* to forgive us of our sins.
* When we do sin, Jesus, the Righteous, is an advocate for us.
* If we say we abide in Jesus, we should act like Jesus


One of the main points I took away from the first chapter of I John was that it is not about *trying* to walk in the light or trying not to sin - it is about abiding in God's love and as a result of your relationship with God, your actions will be more Christlike.  It's the difference between trying to do everything you can to line your life up with God - versus - letting go, abiding in God, living in the center of Christ - and your actions will fall into place.

## Wrap up

I think 2014 was a great year for our group - it's amazing to look back and see all the changes!  I can't wait to see what God is going to do in 2015!

Thanks everyone for your devotion to the group, for your prayers for each other, and for learning about God together as a group.

I pray that God would bless each one of you this next year - that He will help us to grow stronger as a group, and that He will continue to put opportunities in each of our lives to love those around us.

Go out and love on the world!
