# 2015 Email
*12/31/2015*

Hey everyone!

I thought I would keep up the "tradition" of sending out a recap of our year as a small group at the end of each year.

I like to look back across the year and remember what we studied together so hopefully this can be an encouragement to you.

## My feelings of 1 John

I cannot believe we finished up our study in 1 John!  We started studying it together in September of 2014 - that doesn't feel like that long ago...

I feel that I am walking away from this study with a much greater appreciation for 1 John and a more meaningful understanding of the book - it has much more depth for me.

## 1 John recap

In January we were in 1 John 2.

* God doesn't want us to sin, but when we do, He is our advocate and takes our sins (and not just ours, but the sins of the whole world!)
* John gave a sweet reminder (1 John 2:12-14) of how we have victory over sin.
* God *commands* us to love each other.
* John admonished to be separate from the world - to not love the things of this world.
* John uses the word abide (over and over) to encourage us to deepen our walks with God.

This fall we covered 1 John 3-5.

* John reminded us of how God loves us like children - because we *are* His children!
* John re-emphasized the command that God gives us to love our brother.
* Jesus showed us the ultimate example of Love - He laid His life down for us.
* John cautioned us about listening to everyone who has an opinion - make sure you are verifying everything against the Bible with the help of the Holy Spirit
* John went into detail on how to know God more - by letting Him perfect His love in us.
* We love God because He **first** loved us.
* John yet again reminded us that we are commanded to love our brother.
* John gave his credentials to verify the authority he had in writing this letter.  Remember from our study last year how we talked about 1 John being written towards the end of John's life, to give encouragement to a newer generation of Christ followers.
* John also explained that we can have confidence when we pray - whatever we ask according to God's will - God hears us.
* John finished up with this warning (the *very* last sentence of 1 John) - [1 John 5:21](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+john+5%3A21&version=NASB) - "Little children, guard yourselves from idols."

## Looking ahead

I feel that John's last sentence of 1 John is very important.  He chose to end his letter not with a formal closing, but a warning to guard yourselves from idols.  I think this is a *perfect* segue into our upcoming study of the beatitudes.  Just keep that last verse of 1 John in mind as we go into our next study.

In fact, from now until the time we meet again, I would like to challenge you to think of an idol in your life.  What takes your time away from spending time with God.  Or - what are you getting your life from when you should be getting your life from God...  Reflect on that as we go into our next study.

## Wrap up

This past year was another great year for our group.  I feel that we have all grown much stronger in our abilities to study the Bible.  I encourage you to continue to study the Bible on your own - on a regular basis.  That is how you feed yourself spiritually.

I am so pumped to be a part of this small group.  I truly believe God has great things in store for our group and I'm excited to grow along with all of you.

Thank you all for the dedication towards this group and being willing to invest your family's time in this small group.  Thank you for how you reach out to each other in times of need, encourage each other, have fun with each other - it is a huge blessing to me.

I continue to pray that God blesses each of you, that God will be made real to you, and that your relationship with God will grow deeper than ever before.

**Abide in God** in 2016!

